---
date: 2020-10-22
title: DataPLANT is happy to annouce a project coordinator
description: The DataPLANT NFDI was able to convince Cristina, a highly skilled person about to graduate in fundamental plant research as a project coordinator. She will help to work on DataPLANT mission to combine the technical expertise in the areas of basic plant research, information and computer sciences and infrastructure specialists for supporting plant scientists in the handling of research data in a customized way.
---

The DataPLANT NFDI was able to convince Cristina, a highly skilled
person about to graduate in fundamental plant research as a project
coordinator. She will help to work on DataPLANT mission to combine the
technical expertise in the areas of basic plant research, information
and computer sciences and infrastructure specialists for supporting
plant scientists in the handling of research data in a customized way.

She coordinates the DataPLANT consortium within the NFDI, which is
concerned with supporting research data management in basic plant
research. She is in close contact with the research community and the
speakers of the consortium. She will interact closely with thematically
related NFDI consortia and the NFDI Directorate. To this end, she
already brings a wealth of experience in the plant community to bear to
advance collaboration with various stakeholders in Germany and
internationally. She also coordinates the governance of DataPLANT and
assists the "Data Stewards" in supporting the researchers in the
individual groups. In addition, she represents the spokespersons in
committees and associations at federal and European level.
Her profile: She holds a Master's degree in plant sciences with a thesis
on "Physiological and biochemical analyses of sugar
transporter-dependent cold response of Arabidopsis thaliana". Her
further career as a plant physiologist began with her entry into the
department of Prof. Neuhaus, where she started her PhD as a member of
the BMBF-funded Betahiemis project.

She already possesses excellent skills in the management of scientific
projects. In the course of her research activities she was able to
acquire knowledge in the management of large data sets and experience in
scientific data analysis and data visualization. She has already come
into contact with topics relevant to DataPLANT such as ontologies, data
containers, FAIR data. She has a wide range of publishing experience and
experience in fund acquisition, third-party funding management, and
writing project reports. She is also familiar with committee work and
the organization of conferences and workshops.

Cristina will take her post in November. Further open positions in the
DataPLANT NFDI  which will appear in the coming weeks can be found on
this web page and positions in the context of the general NFDI are
posted at the NFDI webpage at nfdi.de.