---
date: 2020-09-21
title: "DataPLANT: First General Assembly"
description: On 21st September the DataPLANT participants gathered online to officially meet for the First General Assembly of the consortium. More then 40 people participated and discussed in the two hours session. At the beginning the DataPLANT mission got refined and explained and how it fits into the NFDI general objectives. The NFDI intends to build a national, sustainable data infrastructure for disciplinary sciences. All successful consortia will enjoy a funding for five years initially. After a successful...
---

On 21st September the DataPLANT participants gathered online to officially meet for the First General Assembly of the consortium. More then 40 people participated and discussed in the two hours session. At
the beginning the DataPLANT mission got refined and explained and how it fits into the NFDI general objectives. The NFDI intends to build a national, sustainable data infrastructure for disciplinary sciences. All successful consortia will enjoy a funding for five years initially. After a successful interim evaluation it would be possible to extend the activities for another five years. DataPLANT intends to gain a significant coverage of researchers and groups in the field of fundamental plant research and to establish a sustainable funding scheme
during this time. The NFDI consortia should help, advise and support
"their disciplines" in standardization and research data management. To
achieve that objective DataPLANT puts the so called Annotated Research
Contexts (ARC) at it's core. An ARC consists of an ordered combination
of experimental data with annotation and descriptions of computational
workflows. The ARCs will help to increase the level of annotation at the
source and track provenance using community standards to maximize
future data discoverability and reuse. With it will come new
responsibilities for researchers. DataPLANT will homogenize formats,
terminologies, guidelines, policies to simplify the RDM landscape which
will lead to democratization of research data.

To support the handling of ARCs storage, compute and authentication
services will get integrated to facilitate usability and access. The
services will focus on plant specific processing and analysis tools
which cover the complete research cycle. ARCs will become the generic
interface for compute and storage as well as for publication and
sharing. The community with especially profit through specialized tools
and workflows, more available storage, a full ARCs compatibility,
automated metadata generation and public repository compatibility.
These developments drive the digital change in science with the goal to
establish an ARC publication as a full equivalent to a classical (paper)
publication.

ARCs are the base of the collaborative research platform and can be
shared between researchers seamlessly (through a mixture of locally
decentralized storage mixed with a collaborative centralized
versioning). The ARCs become the easy to use single access point for the
Swate tool which uses an annotation grammar of source names,
characteristics, factors, parameters, sample name and data.

The DataPLANT consortium is the representative of fundamental plant
research within the NFDI. To facilitate a tight interaction with the
community three boards got created and a General Assembly will gather
from time to time. In between GA the boards will guide and advice
DataPLANT. For transparency all documents of meetings will be published
(slides, notes, decisions, …) The office will support the future board
procedures and will be the first point of contact for the data stewards,
the community and researchers interested in the consortium. For task
areas (TA) will work in different means to support the community: TA1
will hire five standards experts whick will work on quality,
standardization and interoperability. TA2 plans to deploy six developers
and technicians to work on software, services and infrastructure for the
community. TA3 hosts seven data stewards which will directly interact
with the data champions and the wider community on transfer, application
and education in the field. These TAs will get complemented by four
people in coordination, management, support and services in TA4. Those
plannings are estimates as DataPLANT got a nominal budget cut of 13.5%
which translates in real terms (as the salaries are fixed to 2019 DFG
figures) to 20 - 25% reduction. Further on the agreement of the
applicant institution (University of Freiburg) with the DFG is about
getting to be signed, the consortial agreement is still in circulation.

To actually start in DataPLANT a first round of personnel is getting to
be hired. The data champions will be contacted by the office in the
coming weeks to refine the vision and prioritize requirements. They are
the primary target for the “Call for ARCs” in the first round. This is
meant to kick-off the data stewards service which is intended to
communicate and realize the FAIR best practices, plan data management
strategies for research projects and proposals and provide legal
assistance for licensing and sharing of data.

The general assembly got concluded by a talk of Prof. York Sure-Vetter,
director of the NFDI. He gave a short overview on the state of the
creation of the registered association and it's inauguration in October.
He motived the common goal of the improvement of research data
management, the advancement of science and the change of academic
culture to embrace open data publications.

